git init

Initializes a new Git repository in the current directory.

This command is used when you're starting a new project or want to turn an existing folder into a Git repository.

git add .

Adds all files in the current directory and subdirectories to the staging area for the next commit.

The . means "everything" in the current directory.

git config --global user.name "Your Name"

Sets your Git username globally for all repositories on your machine.

This command ensures Git knows who you are when committing changes.

git config --global user.email "you@example.com"

Sets your Git email address globally for all repositories.

Your email is associated with your commits and helps identify you as the author.

git branch

Lists all the branches in the current repository.

It shows which branch you’re currently working on.

git checkout -b main

Creates a new branch called main and switches to it.

This is used when you want to create a new branch and start working on it.

git status

Shows the status of your current repository, including which files are staged, unstaged, or untracked.

It’s useful to see which files need to be committed or added.

git commit -m "Initial commit"

Commits changes in the staging area to the local repository with a message.

The -m flag is followed by a commit message that describes the changes made.

git remote add origin https://github.com/LegendCoderDev505/Type-and-Writer-Lang

Adds a remote repository to link your local Git repository to a GitHub repository.

This command connects your local repository to your remote repository on GitHub.

git push -u origin main

Pushes the local main branch to the remote repository (origin is the default name for the remote repository).

The -u flag sets the upstream branch, meaning future git push and git pull commands will automatically target this remote branch.

git pull origin main --allow-unrelated-histories

Pulls changes from the remote repository (in this case, main) and merges them into your local repository.

The --allow-unrelated-histories flag is used when you have two completely different histories, like when the repository was created locally and remotely separately.

git commit -m "Merge remote-tracking branch 'origin/main'"

After pulling changes and resolving any conflicts, this commits the merge from the remote main branch.

It's the default commit message that Git suggests for merging changes.

git push origin main

Pushes your local main branch changes to the remote repository after a merge.

This syncs your local changes with GitHub.

git branch --list

Lists all branches in the repository.

It’s another way to confirm which branches are available.

git config --global core.autocrlf true

Configures Git to handle line endings between Windows and Linux systems.

true tells Git to automatically convert CRLF line endings to LF when committing files to the repository.

git pull origin main

Pulls the latest changes from the main branch of the remote repository.

git checkout main

Switches to the main branch from your current branch.

git push origin main (after resolving merge)

Pushes your changes to the remote repository after the merge has been completed.